feat: add developer and product docs for cookies (#88)
makeswift/docs: product/troubleshooting/cookies.mdx

---
title: "Cookies in the Builder"
description: Working with cookies inside the Makeswift builder
icon: "cookie-bite" iconType: "regular"
---

## What are Cookies?

> Cookies are a tool used by sites to set small pieces of data on the browser.

Reviewer: Do we have a good doc we can link to for cookies? Maybe this one? https://web.dev/articles/understanding-cookies

I know these are product docs and it's hard to find something reasonable for non-technical users to consume.

Author: I like the one you suggested! I don't think it's too in detail, plus it has nice visuals.

Some features that often rely on cookies include:

- Saving login data after a user logs in to a site
- Storing what items a user has added to their shopping cart
- Tracking user analytics and behavior

If your site relies on setting cookies, you may notice some issues with how your

> site behaves when you load it in the Makeswift builder. This is because your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
site behaves when you load it in the Makeswift Visual Builder. This is because your
```

site is embedded inside an `<iframe>` when it loads in our builder. When an
embedded site (in this case, your site) is attempting to set a cookie, that
cookie is considered by the browser as a [**third-party
cookie**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Privacy/Guides/Third-party_cookies).
Modern web browsers have privacy restrictions on how third-party cookies are
set. As a result, you may see issues related to cookies inside the builder, but
not in your live page. 

## Browser Settings

If cookie related issues are impacting your editing experience, there's some
ways you can modify your browser settings to allow third-party cookies to be
set: We'll go over how for the major browsers:

### Chrome / Brave / Arc

> Unfortunately, Chrome will not allow sites to set third-party cookies unless the

Reviewer: I'm confused as to how this sentence lines up with the first sentence of the next paragraph. We start by saying Chrome will not allow unless cookies have specific attributes. Then, the next paragraph says, it will allow you to control whether specific sites can set third-party cookies. How do those to go together? Can the settings in Chrome override the fact that the properties were missing from cookie itself?

Author: The opposite - even if your Chrome settings permit a site to set third party cookies, these specific attribtues must be present for those cookies work. I'll update to hopefully make this more clear.

cookie has specific attributes. For your site, this means that your developer
will have to make some changes to how cookies are set. See the [Developer
Settings](#developer-settings) section for more details.

> Chrome (and other Chromium based browsers, like Brave and Arc) allow you to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chrome (and other Chromium based browsers, like [Brave](https://brave.com/) and [Arc](https://arc.net/) allow you to
```

control whether specific sites can set third-party cookies. With their plan to
soon disable all third-party cookies, it may be helpful to allow your site to
set third-party cookies:

1. In the URL bar, go to `chrome://settings/cookies`
2. In the **Site allowed to use third party cookies** section, click the
   **Add** button.
3. A text input will appear that allows you to add a domain. Add your site's
   domain. For example, if your host is on `example.com`, enter
   `example.com` in the text input.
   - You can also match your other subdomains, like `custom.example.com`, by
   using a matcher: `[*.]example.com`.

For more information on modifying Chrome's cookie permissions for you site, [see this
article](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647).

### Firefox

> Since 2021, Firefox automatically partitions third-party cookies - this means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since 2021, Firefox automatically partitions third-party cookies which means
```

> that any cookies your site sets while you're using the Makeswift builder will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that any cookies your site sets while you're using the Makeswift Visual Builder will
```

> only be saved within the builder. This means that your site should behave as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only be saved within the builder. Because of this, your site should behave as
```

expected within Makeswift, without any action needed on your part.

If you're still encountering issues, you can modify your browser settings:

1. Go to **Preferences** > **Privacy & Security**
2. Under the **Cookies and Site Data** section, click **Manage Exceptions**
3. In the dialog that appears, enter your site's domain name and click **Allow**.

For more information on modifying Firefox's cookie permissions for you site, [see this
article](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/third-party-cookies-firefox-tracking-protection).

### Safari

To disable Safari's third-party cookie restrictions:
1. Go to **Settings** > **Privacy**

> 2. Uncheck the box for "Website tracking: Prevent cross-site tracking".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Uncheck the box for **Website tracking: Prevent cross-site tracking**.
```
